# GCC

In this lab, we will be using the command line program [gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org/) to compile programs in C. Use the following command to compile the code for exercise 1 (make sure that you have `cd`ed into the proper directory)

```bash
gcc ex1_hello.c
```

This compiles `ex1_hello.c` into an [executable](https://cs61c.org/fa24/labs/lab01/#faq) file named `a.out`. If you've taken CS61B or have experience with Java, you can kinda think of `gcc` as the C equivalent of `javac`. This file can be run with the following command:

```bash
./a.out
```

The executable file is `a.out`, so what is the `./` for? Answer: when you want to execute an executable, you need to prepend the path to the name of the executable. The dot refers to the "current directory." Double dots (`..`) would refer to the directory one level up.

`gcc` has various command line options which you are encouraged to explore. In this lab, however, we will only be using `-o`, which is used to specify the name of the executable file that `gcc` creates. By default, the name of the executable generated by `gcc` is `a.out`. You can use the following commands to compile `ex1_hello.c` into a program named `ex1_hello`, and then run it. This is helpful if you don't want all of your executable files to be named `a.out`.

```bash
gcc -o ex1_hello ex1_hello.c
./ex1_hello
```

At this point, you should see the string `Hello World` printed out. If you edit the source code (such as `ex1_hello.c`), you must recompile the program using `gcc` to produce a new executable, otherwise the executable will still run the old source code.
